---
title: 英文维基翻译：霍桑登的威廉·德拉蒙德
urlname: english-wiki-translation-william-drummond-of-hawthornden
toc: true
date: 2018-08-01 00:51:29
updated: 2018-08-01 00:51:29
tags: [Translation, W.Drummond]
---

基于版本<https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=William_Drummond_of_Hawthornden&oldid=801883075>。

---

<!--
William Drummond (13 December 1585 – 4 December 1649), called "of Hawthornden", was a Scottish poet.[1]
-->

“**霍桑登的**”**威廉·德拉蒙德**（1585年12月13日 - 1649年12月4日），苏格兰诗人。<a href="#bib1" id="bib1ref"><sup>[1]</sup></a>

## 生平

<!--
Drummond was born at Hawthornden Castle, Midlothian, to John Drummond, the first laird of Hawthornden, and Susannah Fowler, sister of the poet and courtier William Fowler. [2] Sir Robert Drummond of Carnock, one-time Master of Work to the Crown of Scotland, was his grandfather.
这要我到哪里去查证Susannah到底是William Fowler的姐姐还是妹妹……
居然还真的查到了（https://www.geni.com/people/Susanna-Fowler/6000000019740401405），1552-1589，既然William的生卒年是1560-1612，那显然Susannah是姐姐。
那个“苏格兰皇室营造大师”真的是我乱翻出来的，不知道该用什么语气……
-->

德拉蒙德出生于[中洛锡安](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E4%B8%AD%E6%B4%9B%E9%94%A1%E5%AE%89)的[霍桑登城堡](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hawthornden_Castle)，父亲约翰·德拉蒙德是第一位霍桑登[领主](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laird)，母亲苏珊娜·福勒是诗人和廷臣[威廉·福勒](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Fowler_(makar))的姐姐。<a href="#bib2" id="bib2ref"><sup>[2]</sup></a>他的祖父是[卡内克的罗伯特·德拉蒙德爵士](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Drummond_of_Carnock)，曾任[苏格兰皇室营造大师](Master of Work to the Crown of Scotland)一职。

<!--
Drummond received his early education at the Royal High School of Edinburgh, and graduated in July 1605 as M.A. of the recently founded University of Edinburgh. His father was a gentleman usher at the English court (as he had been at the Scottish court from 1590) and William, in a visit to London in 1606, describes the festivities in connection with the visit of the king of Denmark. Drummond spent two years at Bourges and Paris in the study of law; and, in 1609, he was again in Scotland, where, by the death of his father in the following year, he became laird of Hawthornden at the early age of 24.[2]
看了半日，实在不知道as he had been at the Scottish court from 1590是个啥意思。是他当时在苏格兰宫廷里面呢，还是因为他是苏格兰宫廷引见官，所以就自动变成了英格兰宫廷引见官？英国国王詹姆士六世是1603年即位的，这个原因倒是大概很清楚。
以及这个丹麦国王庆祝活动是什么鬼，有用吗？
-->

德拉蒙德早年在[爱丁堡皇家高中](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Royal_High_School,_Edinburgh)接受教育，并于1605年7月毕业于当时刚成立不久的[爱丁堡大学](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E7%88%B1%E4%B8%81%E5%A0%A1%E5%A4%A7%E5%AD%A6)，获得硕士学位。他的父亲是英格兰宫廷[引见官](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gentleman_Usher)（因为他自1590年起就是苏格兰宫廷引见官）；他在1606年参观伦敦时描述了与丹麦国王访问有关的庆祝活动。德拉蒙德在[布尔日](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E5%B8%83%E5%B0%94%E6%97%A5)和巴黎学习了两年法律；1609年，他再次回到苏格兰，次年父亲去世，他在24岁的年纪就成为了霍桑登领主。<a href="#bib2" id="bib2ref"><sup>[2]</sup></a>

<!--
The list of books he read up to this time is preserved in his own handwriting. It indicates a strong preference for imaginative literature, and shows that he was keenly interested in contemporary verse. His collection (now in the library of the University of Edinburgh) contains many first editions of the most famous productions of the age.[3] On finding himself his own master, Drummond naturally abandoned law for the muses; "for," says his biographer in 1711, "the delicacy of his wit always run on the pleasantness and usefulness of history, and on the fame and softness of poetry".[2] In 1612 began his correspondence with Sir William Alexander of Menstrie, afterwards Earl of Stirling, which ripened into a lifelong friendship after Drummond's visit to Menstrie in 1614.[2]
……他的传记作者在说什么？啊？我感觉，要不然我得去更了解德拉蒙德，要不然我得去查原文和作者，才能知道他想说什么……
以及我有点说都不会话了。
-->

他此时已经读过的书籍清单在他自己的手写记录中保存了下来。这些书显示了他对富有想象力的文学的强烈偏好，并表明他对当代诗歌非常感兴趣。他的藏书（现存于爱丁堡大学图书馆）中包括了许多当时最着名作品的第一版。<a href="#bib3" id="bib3ref"><sup>[3]</sup></a>在获得对自己的自主权之后，德拉蒙德自然而然地放弃了法律，转向缪斯；“因为，”他的传记作者在1711年说，“他微妙的才思总是依赖于历史的愉悦性和实用性，以及诗歌的名声和柔和。”<a href="#bib2" id="bib2ref"><sup>[2]</sup></a>1612年，他开始与[曼斯特里的威廉·亚历山大爵士](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Alexander,_1st_Earl_of_Stirling)（后来成为斯特林伯爵）通信；1614年德拉蒙德拜访[曼斯特里](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Menstrie)后，这逐渐成为了一段终身的友谊。<a href="#bib2" id="bib2ref"><sup>[2]</sup></a>

Drummond's first publication appeared in 1613, an elegy on the death of Henry, Prince of Wales, called Teares on the Death of Meliades (Moeliades, 3rd edit. 1614). The poem shows the influence of Spenser's and Sidney's pastoralism. In the same year he published an anthology of the elegies of Chapman, Wither and others, entitled Mausoleum, or The Choisest Flowres of the Epitaphs. In 1616, the year of Shakespeare's death, appeared Poems: Amorous, Funerall, Divine, Pastorall: in Sonnets, Songs, Sextains, Madrigals, being substantially the story of his love for Mary Cunningham of Barns, who was about to become his wife when she died in 1615.[4]

The poems bear marks of a close study of Sidney, and of the Italian poets. He sometimes translates direct from the Italian, especially from Giambattista Marino. Forth Feasting: A Panegyricke to the King's Most Excellent Majestie (1617), a poem written in heroic couplets of remarkable facility, celebrates James's visit to Scotland in that year. In 1618 Drummond began a correspondence with Michael Drayton. The two poets continued to write at intervals for thirteen years, the last letter being dated in the year of Drayton's death. The latter had almost been persuaded by his "dear Drummond" to print the later books of Poly-Olbion at Hart's Edinburgh press. In the winter of 1618-1619, Drummond had included Ben Jonson in his circle of literary friends, and at Christmas 1618 was honoured with a visit of a fortnight or more from the dramatist.[5]

The account of their conversations, long supposed to be lost, was discovered in the Advocates' Library, Edinburgh, by David Laing, and was edited for the Shakespeare Society in 1842 and printed by Gifford & Cunningham. The conversations are full of literary gossip, and embody Jonson's opinion of himself and of his host, whom he frankly told that "his verses were too much of the schooles, and were not after the fancie of the time," and again that he "was too good and simple, and that oft a man's modestie made a fool of his witt".[2] But the publication of what was obviously intended merely for a private journal has given Jonson an undeserved reputation for harsh judgements, and has cast blame on Drummond for blackening his guest's memory.[5]

In 1623 appeared the poet's fourth publication, entitled Flowers of Sion: By William Drummond of Hawthornedenne: to which is adjoyned his Cypresse Grove. From 1625 till 1630 Drummond was probably for the most part engaged in travelling on the Continent.[5] On 29 September 1626 he received a sixteen patents for diverse devices, mainly military. These included Glasses of Archimedes which could set ships afire at sea and an early form of machine gun "in which a number of musket barrels are fastened together in such a manner as to allow one man to take the place of a hundred musketeers in battle.[6] However, there is no evidence that he actually produced any of these devices.[citation needed] In 1627, however, he seems to have been home for a short time, as, in that year, he appears in the entirely new character of the holder of a patent for the construction of military machines, entitled "Litera Magistri Gulielmi Drummond de Fabrica Machinarum Militarium, Anno 1627".[5] The same year, 1627, is the date of Drummond's munificent gift (referred to above) of about 500 volumes to the library of the University of Edinburgh.[5]

In 1630 Drummond again began to reside permanently at Hawthornden, and in 1632 he married Elizabeth Logan, by whom he had five sons and four daughters. In 1633 Charles made his coronation-visit to Scotland; and Drummond's pen was employed in writing congratulatory speeches and verses.[5] He was involved in organising the King's triumphal procession through Edinburgh.[7] As Drummond preferred Episcopacy to Presbytery, and was an extremely loyal subject, he supported Charles's general policy, though he protested against the methods employed to enforce it. When John Elphinstone, 2nd Lord Balmerino was put on his trial on the capital charge of retaining in his possession a petition regarded as a libel on the king's government, Drummond in an energetic "Letter" (1635) urged the injustice and folly of the proceedings. About this time a claim by the earl of Menteith to the earldom of Strathearn, which was based on the assertion that Robert III, husband of Annabella Drummond, was illegitimate, roused the poet's pride of blood and prompted him to prepare an historical defence of his house.[5]


The burial vault of William Drummond of Hawthornden, Lasswade Kirkyard

Plaque to William Drummond dating from the restoration of his vault in 1892
Partly to please his kinsman the earl of Perth, and partly to satisfy his own curiosity, the poet made researches in the genealogy of the family. This investigation was the real secret of Drummond's interest in Scottish history; and so we find that he now began his History of Scotland during the Reigns of the Five Jameses, a work which did not appear till 1655, and is remarkable only for its good literary style. His next work was called forth by the king's enforced submission to the opposition of his Scottish subjects. It is entitled Irene: or a Remonstrance for Concord, Amity, and Love amongst His Majesty's Subjects (1638), and embodies Drummond's political creed of submission to authority as the only logical refuge from democracy, which he hated. In 1639 Drummond had to sign the Covenant in self-protection, but was uneasy under the burden, as several political squibs by him testify. In 1643 he published Σκιαμαχία: or a Defence of a Petition tendered to the Lords of the Council of Scotland by certain Noblemen and Gentlemen, a political pamphlet in support of those royalists in Scotland who wished to espouse the king's cause against the English parliament. Its burden is an invective on the intolerance of the then dominant Presbyterian clergy.[5]

His later works may be described briefly as royalist pamphlets, written with more or less caution, as the times required. Drummond took the part of Montrose; and a letter from the Royalist leader in 1646 acknowledged his services. He also wrote a pamphlet, A Vindication of the Hamiltons, supporting the claims of the Duke of Hamilton to lead the Scottish army which was to release Charles I. It is said that Drummond's health received a severe shock when news was brought of the king's execution.[5]

He died on 4 December 1649.[5] He was buried in a stone vault in his parish church of Lasswade.[5] His tomb was restored in the 1880s and a bronze relief added over the entrance.[citation needed]

## 参考文献

<a id="bib1" href="#bib1ref"><sup>[1]</sup></a> "<http://www.poetryfoundation.org/bio/william-drummond-of-hawthornden>" www.poetryfoundation.org. 2015.
<a id="bib2" href="#bib2ref"><sup>[2]</sup></a> [Chisholm 1911](https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/1911_Encyclop%C3%A6dia_Britannica/Drummond,_William), p. 600.
<a id="bib3" href="#bib3ref"><sup>[3]</sup></a> "[William Drummond](http://www.ed.ac.uk/information-services/library-museum-gallery/crc/collections/special-collections/rare-books-manuscripts/rare-books-directory-section/william-drummond)". 爱丁堡大学. 2017-09-22.
